---
title: Chasing Rabbits
description: Learning new technology can be challenging, especially when there are so many things to learn.
tags:
- personl
- technology
- development
---

If you've every followed [Hacker News](https://news.ycombinator.com/news),
you've probably seen your share of emerging technology, programming languages,
libraries, and frameworks. If you were to follow every one of them, you likely
would have to make a full-time job out of it. Although this might be something
that Google or Facebook might offer, chances are that your company doesn't have
the resources necessary to dedicate someone to chase after every new technology
that comes about.

It's hard to know which technology will stand the tests of time, so choosing the
"right" one seems to be an important thing to get right the first time. This can
be true. It can be very costly to switch a project over to a new technology
stack, but it can be even more costly to wait around for the "right" technology
to become well-supported.

When I first heard about Node.js, it was already pretty mature, but it was very
new to me. I was pretty entrenched in PHP and Drupal. Not necessarily by choice,
but by an employer need. Node.js just seemed so different, too different, to
even attempt to investigate. At the time, I was a full-time student and working
two part-time jobs, so finding time to learn something new was difficult. After
some intriguing conversations with a mentor of mine and some co wo workers, I
decided to spend some extra time learning it.

Over the next couple years, leading up to now, I've been heavily invested in
Node.js. Just recently, a group of top contributors to Node core have forked
Node.js to a new project due to a disagreement on how it should be managed.
There's a lot of people saying that it could kill Node.js, and others say it's a
healthy sign of project maturity. It's hard to know at this early stage, but me,
I've decided to keep supporting the platform.

There are many other technologies that I could chase after, many other rabbits,
but if I keep chasing every rabbit that comes along, I would catch none. I have
become productive in Node.js, and I enjoy using it. Sometimes it's not the best
technology for some projects, and in those cases, I usually choose something
else.

With all the technologies that are out there, it's hard to know which ones to
chase after. Good research may help, but I've found that choosing something that
interests me has made me a much happier and much more productive developer.
