---
title: The Current State of Things
description: I go into some of the current technologies that I'm interested in.
tags: personal, technology, development
---

Since my first post was yesterday, I thought it might be good to document the
most recent technologies that I am working with.

I own a MacBook Pro that I bought nearly two and a half years ago. It's
currently running Mac OS X Yosemite. Surprisingly, it runs just as fast or
faster than when I originally purchased it. Some of that is due to the advances
in OS X, but I've also kept it pretty clean, doing clean installs every nine
months or so.

Don't worry, I won't try to convince you to "Apple all the things" or anything
like that. It's not a religion, although I know some people who treat it as
such. The first time I got a Mac, I considered myself a heavy Windows user. I
didn't have anything against Mac; I only really knew Windows. My parents got
me a MacBook Pro 13" for school. I put a Windows partition on it for my Windows
stuff, and used OS X for design, and a little bit of development.

Since then, I've stopped using Windows for work related stuff and have gone
full, Mac. The main reason being that about two-thirds of the web runs on Linux.
I needed better Unix support as well as pretty good access to design programs.
Turns out that Mac is a good cross between the two. There are some pretty good
shell programs to give you some good linux support, though.

I currently work full-time as a web developer working on all sorts of projects.
At my job, I help maintain some wordpress stuff, but spend most of my time
working on conversion optimization development and tying in our wordpress sites
into our backend systems that run on Ruby. I don't do much Ruby, but I am able
parse through it enought to get around.

For side-projects (mostly personal projects), I mostly use Node.js. I use
Node.js for a lot of web asset build processes for a lot of my work projects.
I've built some web scraping tools and template builders for some quick work
projects, as well. I currently maintain 16 [npm
modules](https://www.npmjs.org/~ksmithut) (might be more or less when you read
this). Some are used more than others, but all of them stemmed from a personal
need.

I've recently wanted to start looking more into [`go`](https://golang.org/), but
haven't had the time with all of my work and school. I'm hoping to have some
time during next semester to get more into it.

My text editor of choice is [Atom](https://atom.io/). I'm a big fan of how
configurable and pluggable it is. I own a license for Sublime Text 2, which I
also enjoy using for things that Atom can't quite handle just yet (Atom hasn't
reached 1.x yet). I've used full on IDEs for web development (like Titanium
Studio), but I always spent more time configuring my environment for every
project than I liked. I also ran into all sorts of `git` trouble trying to
manage branching, merge conflicts, and all that good stuff. I've since switched
to just using git in the Terminal.

My usual development setup is Chrome open on one desktop screen, Terminal open
in another, and Atom open on the third. I like to think that it's pretty
minimalistic, but I know I could go further if I made the leap to vim.

My setup and opinions of technology will most likely change by this time next
year. It will be interesting to look back and wonder, "What was I thinking?".
