---
title: Introduction
description: A simple introduction to me and my hopes for this site
tags: personal
---

Hello. My name is Keith.

I've decided to start a blog. The initial purpose of this is to document the
things that I learn so I have a place to refer back to them. You're probably
asking, **"Why don't you just write it down in a journal?"**.

That's a perfectly valid question. I have often asked myself that in the past,
which is why it has taken me so long to start a public web log. The short
answer is:

> To keep myself accountable

I've tried writing in a journal and many other forms of self documentation.
Because it's mostly private, I also privately convince myself that I don't need
it. That is a lack of self-discipline on my part. If I document my learnings
publicly, then I will hopefully keep myself more accountable to keep things
updated.

I'm currently working as a developer full-time. I'm also a full-time student,
for a bit longer. I'm a full-time husband and new father to a beautiful little
girl. Life's a bit hectic right now, but finishing up my degree next spring
should help alleviate some of that stress.

## Topics

I would like what I talk about to be interesting to myself, as well as others.
I won't try to accomodate everyone, but hopefully someone finds this mildy
useful/entertaining.

I feel like I've benefitted a lot from online tutorials for software
development, so I thought that I might talk some of the things I learn on the
development front. I won't stick to any one particular language, and my coding
style and preference may evolve over time. Bear with me.

In school, a lot of my peers seemed to struggle with software development. A
lot. I did, too. Maybe even worse than they are. They seem to be stuck in the
mindset that they will learn everything they need to know about development from
the professors there. Don't get me wrong, the professors at my University are
very forward thinking and try their best to keep up with the latest and
greatest, but a University setting will always be behind the industry by nature.
So I hope to also tailor my development discussions in a way that my peers can
understand and benefit from.

I might also go on personal rants, or talk about phycholical or philisophical
ideas. Those might be more infrequent than the programming-based ones, but it is
something to expect nonetheless.

## Goals

This blog is being started for personal reasons. I'm not doing this for monetary
gain or because someone dared or challenged me. I hope to have written at least
1 post a week. Maybe more. I would like to do it daily eventually, but I'll
start this blog with a weekly goal.

I hope that I am able to get to know myself better through this process. I got
lost somewhere in the past few years, and it may take much longer to find my way
back.

To the journey!
